10 new features, 17 bug fixes, and eight
improvements across two releases.
Starting with performance, startup
memory usage drops by 18 megabytes
everywhere and up to 80 megabytes on
large repositories with over 250,000
files. The admention file autocomplete
is also noticeably faster in big repos.
Now, the plug-in system gets five
upgrades. You can now declare plugins in
line in settings.json with the new
settings source. The CLI detects tool
usage patterns to suggest relevant
plugins. Skills and/comands support an
effort front matter field to override
model effort. Plug-in C directories
accept multiple paths and plug-in
install tips are simplified to a single
command.
VS Code gets a standout feature/ remote
control bridges your session to
claude.ai/code
so you can continue from a browser or
phone. Session tabs now get AI generated
titles based on your first message. The
syncing pill correctly shows start for n
seconds after responses and the session
diff button is back in the sidebar. Two
CLI fixes and two new flags. The console
flag on clot o login connects to
entropic console for API billing
authentication. Clot-p no longer hangs
when spawned as a subprocess. Control C
works again in print mode. and channels
is a research preview that lets MCP
servers push messages into your session.
Voice mode gets two reliability fixes.
It now activates correctly on startup
when voice enabled is set to true and
websocket connections no longer fail
from Cloudflare bot detection on non-
browser fingerprints. On the status line
side, scripts can now access rate limits
with 5-hour and 7-day usage windows.
Plus, there is a new show turn duration
toggle. Six navigation improvements
across the board. SL permissions now
responds to tap and arrow keys properly.
Slash effort shows what auto currently
resolves to matching the status bar.
SLandbox tap switching works with
keyboard navigation. The background
tasks panel closes with left arrow from
list view and two status line edge cases
are resolved. Seven reliability fixes
for sessions and the API layer. D-res no
longer drops parallel tool results.
Non-streaming API calls get a 2minut per
attempt timeout to prevent hanks.
Session and hooks fire correctly when
using interactive/resume.
400 errors through API proxies. Bedrock
and vertex are fixed. Enterprise users
can retry on rate limits and manage
settings load correctly from cache. Run
clot update to get both releases right
now. Over 75,000 developers are already
building with clot code on GitHub. If
these updates help your workflow,
subscribe and hit the bell so you never
miss a release.